---
layout: post
categories: robocup-at-home comp3550
title: "21 -- 2 weeks to project review" 
resource: true
---

It was pretty difficult to balance out this project with engineering innovations over the past 2 weeks.  I feel a little annoyed that the Tuesday meeting resulted in us finding out Abbie and I had been doing redundant work so I've decided to shift back to just doing documentation for now.  Abbie's been tasked with developing a Kinect camera module which will be fun to see if she manages anything before the showcase -- it's a little late to be adding in new features!  I'll keep working on ROS integration and documentation for the most part; I'm worried that Cameron's NLP work hasn't moved anywhere since last term... Seb has integrated it into the ROS framework but I will probably be swapping it around a bit to make sure it's less coupled with the other modules.

The current agreed-upon ROS framework is still too tightly coupled for my liking, but I think it might have to be just to get a real-time video stream happening.  The latency of sending messages from node to node is something I'm really surprised at for such a mature framework.  We can basically guarantee that the messages will "eventually" send, but nothing more.  Luckily we can limit the queue backlog to avoid always processing old images and decoded speech snippets...

Back to documentation for now!  The PMs have asked me to work with Cameron on getting the NLP to recognise both commands and questions as per the project objectives, and for the GUI and the rest of the framework to deal with the different streams accordingly.  I've added in the hooks and speech decodings in the framework, but Cameron was unable to get the NLP module doing anything on the day I did this.  At least it will be plug-and-play the moment he implements it, something we couldn't have done in the previous integrated work. We'll see how it goes before the showcase.