---
layout: post
categories: robocup-at-home comp3550
title: "23 -- Showcase" 
resource: true
---

The showcase was a lot larger than I anticipated!  I ended up staying on for nearly the entire time to help set up the project and mitigate technical issues that we encountered.  It turns out that one of the key libraries we based some of our work on had updated that morning -- one day we'll learn not to do a fresh install just before demonstrations!  Nevertheless it's all working now and the showcase went well, with many people quite impressed at what we are doing and where we are taking the project.

Looking back to the beginning of the project we really had no idea what we wanted to achieve other than "build a cool robot that does things".  We've progressed from that to having an actual framework to run and test code with, a set of matching documentation and the PMs have had a good go at setting up a management framework to keep the ball rolling.  I feel we've acheived more than I was expecting halfway through the year, and things look positive for the project's future.

I've certainly learnt a lot about integration, but I feel that the team communication right up until the end was still a team of individuals rather than a group of people working on something cool.  This is likely because of the small size we have, where everyone needs to be working on their own lone part before we could put it together.  Realistically it needs to be a larger team next year -- something we'll achieve via a society so that TechLauncher teams can still be smaller.  The majority of my time went towards researching good methods to do offline processing of real-time events, and how to make it modular enough so we could make a flexible system.  I'm saddened that I didn't do as much work on control systems as I would have liked to, but we didn't have the low-level parts completed for me to do this until very recently.  I learnt a lot about designing flexible tools and managing to document them at the same time to ensure they would be future proof; something I still need to work on is how to automatically generate documentation whilst writing code since this would save so much time.  One thing I would have probably done differently is not split us up into individuals working on single parts, but stay as groups tackling each issue in turn.  I feel this would have helped us avoid duplication of efforts and maintain a cohesive code base that was of high quality and more modular.  Communication would have also been much better as small teams rather than individual islands of knowledge.  Still, I've enjoyed the project and the ability to start this from scratch is something I wouldn't have been able to do anywhere else.