---
layout: post
categories: robocup-at-home comp3550
title: "19 -- Objectives Document" 
resource: true
---

This week we drafted up some proper management documentation and all agreed to adhere to it.  After all the updates the final version is quite polished, and I hope it gives us all a bit of a vision on where to go next.  We should have a clearer goal on where we want to end up and are no longer just heading towards a showcase but wrapping up loose ends and getting ready to hand over the project to the group next year.  The documennt is still missing things like documentation and tutorials, but I hope to get some of this up and going on the wiki, especially on installing ROS and updating everything (the build script is nice but not amazingly good documentation-wise).  I do wonder what Seb and Greg are doing that will be different to Abbie and myself work-wise, since we seem to be 2 groups working on the same thing.  Nevertheless I'll press on and see what happens.

The objectives document showed me that we have actually achieved quite a bit in the 3/4 of a year we've been working on this.  I'm worried that one of our team members is not fully on board and helping as much as they could be however, which means that our small team has just become even smaller just before we ramp up to handing this project over...

There still appears to be a large distinction between completing and documenting work -- something that really should be more integrated (if we managed to pull something like Doxygen off it'd be amazing but we no longer really have the time to convert all the code to work with it).  It'll be a bit of an uphill struggle to get documentation done and have more than just a pretty GUI with some hacky code in the background...
