---
layout: post
categories: robocup-at-home comp3550
title: "3 -- Starting Out -- Innovation and Problem identification" 
resource: true
---


Like I mentioned in the last post, the first team meeting is set for week 4, so all I can do until then is brief our new overlord PMs on what we have done so far and set up some parts for the upcoming weeks.   


# Problem Identification
I changed one of my courses to Machine Learning at ANU, and as such it clashes with the TechLauncher lectures.  I feel that since there's so much maths involved with Machine Learning it's better that I attend the lectures there instead.

Regardless, I listened to the lecture recording and had a thought about what innovation means.  I have a feeling that no one is born with the skills to innovate -- rather, they are learned through practice and teaching and enhanced by any raw talent that the individual might have.  I don't see the world the same way a lot of people do, with brick walls and barriers in place to stop them achieving anything.  I think that instead, these barriers are just problems that need a work-around to get past.  Non-innovators see the world as a set of problems to endure, whilst innovators see these problems as opportunities to create something worthwile. 

One problem I run into frequently is sitting down and planning out the solution to a problem.  I'm very much someone who wants to do things NOW rather than leave them for later, and because of that I'm not very good at designing something to begin with.  If I'm given a plan though, I can work on it and fix all of the problems I come across.  In that sense, I'm not entirely sure I'm an "innovator" -- more of a person who can take an idea and make it work properly.  I have a different type of creativity I think, that while it doesn't prevent me from innovating, steers me more towards application than design.

# Meeting with the PMs

Abbie and I met up with Jess and Greg to transfer the project management to them and get them up to speed with what we have done so far.  There seemed like they want to put a lot of thought into how to approach such a huge project, and they're both really enthusiastic.  I look forward to our proper team meeting where we start designing the system at large.

# Context map vs dependency graphs and which should come first
There are so many dependencies in this project that we need to really plan and take a systems approach to solving the problem.  This is something I'm not terribly good at yet (still learning the frameworks and outlay), but over the next week I hope to think about what the system needs to do and create a capability tree.
