---
layout: post
categories: robocup-at-home comp3550
title: "16 -- Demo Week" 
resource: true
---

OH BOY THIS HAS BEEN A BUSY WEEK.  I managed to reinstall the OS on the desktop and set it up for the demo again.  Magic has offered for us to use his machine for the demonstration since it's more powerful, but at least now we have a backup machine in case the worst happens.  I received the microphones I ordered a few weeks back; they work much better both on the virtual machine and the physical hardware!  They have inbuilt basic noise cancellation which has improved speech detection even on an overly general US-based model.

I retweaked the demonstration to have a nicer-looking output and uploaded a newly-created language model and lookup dictionary for speech recognition.  The CMUSphinx online language model toolkit was working this week so I quickly ran it on the test data I gathered from Robocup International 2015 and uploaded the resulting model to the team repository.  Detection and accuracy rates are now well over 80% even in a slightly noisy environment, which I think is great and proves to me that my work these past few weeks porting the speech detection hasn't been in vain.

We had a quick meeting on Tuesday to finalise the software and who would be available during the demonstration time; unfortunately since I was already working on open day I couldn't see the final product.  During this meeting Abbie mentioned she would no longer be working on the architecture at the request of the project managers, which is worrying given that it's the only thing that allowed me to integrate the work done so far in a manner that wasn't too convoluted... I hope that what she has done so far continues to lead us in the right direction for the final framework.  Cameron had still not uploaded any work though he promised he had been doing something.  Magic's face detection was working on his machine but the repository version did not integrate properly that day.

On Friday just before open day Cameron finally pushed the Levenshtein work he had been doing, and Greg and I integrated it quickly into the framework so that we had some meaningful output to the questions my speech detection could decode.  Magic managed to integrate his work as well, and we had 2 machines ready to go for the open day demonstration. Hopefully it goes well!