---
layout: post
categories: robocup-at-home comp3550
title: "1 -- Proposing a Project"
resource: true
---

This year at ANU, we're able to propose our own project, something that I feel is a step in the right direction given that a lot of us undergraduates have some cool ideas to work on.  One that I've been thinking of doing is building up a robot and software suite capable of competing in the @Home league of the Robocup International competition.  It ties in well with my desire to perform research in interesting areas, and cross over more into the physical side of computing as well.

The first couple of weeks for this course have felt a little slow compared to what I was expecting, but that could be because it's changed so much since last year and the preparations haven't been finalised.  I feel it would have been better to have an email sent out before O-week to get people thinking about possible projects, with all of them proposed by the end of week 1 or halfway through week 2.  Nevertheless Abbie and I have co-proposed (as much as that's possible on the website) a Robocup@Home team project that we hope to continue next year.  We want to make it a continuous project for the ANU if it goes ahead, since it's a really interesting project with so many unsolved problems!  We also have a third year (unofficially), a second year and a few first years interested in helping out where they can, and continuing where we leave it off.

One important difference for me compared to the rest of the cohort is that I must perform research as part of this project.  Looking at the list of possible teams, it seems that the @Home project is one of the few with research possibilities, so I hope that it goes ahead.

I've started reading into natural language processing and computer vision models, but even though I did some CV in second year the maths is already past me again -- I need to look into courses on machine learning.