---
layout: post
categories: robocup-at-home comp3550
title: "15 -- Moving away from ROS for now" 
resource: true
---

This week has been pretty productive -- most of us have been working hard on getting our work up to scratch and integrated properly into a coherent system rather than isolated islands.  Most of the week for me has been refactoring speech recognition to work on GStreamer, something I have mostly working (barring configuration of the vocabulary to match against -- the CMUSphinx language model tool is still down...)!  I've spent far too long this week wrestling with ROS installs and getting the correct OpenCV libraries working so that Seb and Magic's code will run alongside it.  It doesn't seem to always work on the virtual machine image that everyone has which is strange... I might leave the desktop at university so that everyone has access to a working system.

I met up with Seb and Greg to design the message passing system for ROS, and unfortunately it went from one problem to the next with missing laptop chargers and wrangling semi-broken ROS installs on everyone's systems... Abbie came in towards the end and that helped a little bit, but in the end we wasted about an hours' time to no avail... better luck next time I suppose.

On the weekend Abbie, Seb, Magic and myself came together in a technical workshop to try and integrate everything properly.  We ended up dropping ROS in favour of a TKinter GUI framework and use pipes and message passing to link everything together -- there were too many issues keeping everyone up to speed with the ROS framework.  This isn't a very robust solution (nor is it easy to plug in different or new modules!), but it gives us something to showcase and allows us to play with things until they work together properly on the code side.  Our programs are still quite modular, the communication is now tightly coupled which will need to be improved in the next version.  On a positive side, we managed to integrate the work that Seb, myself and Magic's code (the face detection is still semi-working, something that Magic is refactoring this coming few days) in a basic fashion ready for polishing up and preparing for the open day.  I'm grateful for all the work Abbie's been doing on architecture, it's really helped to put everything together in a way that isn't too messy nor fragile.

I'm growing increasingly worried about Cameron, he hasn't pushed anything nor has had time to meet up.  I'm worried I will have to hastily integrate work or write his part in order to have a functional demo... I've done what I can to get in contact with him, and I hope that he will come good soon.

On a side note, Magic managed to kill the GUI on the desktop, so I will need to rebuild that before the open day.