---
layout: post
categories: robocup-at-home comp3550
title: "14 -- Keeping on track, and some hardware" 
resource: true
---

This week we had the first tutor meeting to check up on how we were progressing as a team.  I brought in a small-form-factor desktop with basic hardware to showcase a machine setup and script I have written to give us more stability in what we are developing for.  It's not the fastest but at least we now have something we can demonstrate on, with Seb's camera and my microphone I think we have a chance at getting a nice setup going.  I managed to get ROS installed and seemingly working, though everyone still has different hardware which will make interactions difficult.  Towards the end of the week I've looked into building a virtual machine to upload, though it's going to be absolutely huge and Git chokes on that kind of file... worst-case I have the build script up on the project repository, so people can build an identical virtual machine.

I currently still have the (working) delayed recording version of my code, and am working out just how bad Postmodern documentation practices are... the CMUSphinx GStreamer example seems to change every week!  Hopefully it will be updated to match the framework soon, there doesn't seem to be much in the way of configurability if I go down this route, but it does mean I will be able to fix up the slow response times.

There wasn't much to take away from the meeting other than the fact we were heading back in the right direction.  We're focusing on integrating our code via the ROS framework and refactoring it so that it works smoothly on the older hardware without too many library troubles.  I've messaged Cameron about meeting up to integrate the NLP framework however he hasn't got back to me yet.  He mentioned working on Levenshtein distance NLP techniques, but I don't know much more really...