---
layout: post
categories: robocup-at-home comp3550
title: "11 -- getting demos ready and beginning to integrate" 
resource: true
---

There was no formal team meeting this first week back, which meant I didn't really catch up with everyone. The first meeting is set for next week, so I suppose I'll see what happens then.

The more I read about ROS I do think we should eventually aim to get everything working on it -- however, the library dependency setup doesn't seem to make building things easy.  Hopefully I'll have some more time thsee coming weeks to read up and help integrate everything.

Over the holidays I haven't done huge amounts of work, but incremental changes towards building an AU language model by tweaking the US pronunciation rules.  The online CMUSphinx site (http://www.speech.cs.cmu.edu/tools/lmtool.html) to upload keyword files is currently down so I've had to postpone this until it's back up and working again.

Reflecting more on the meeting I mentioned last entry, we went around in cirlces a bit with no end in sight, until Abbie put up sheets of paper and we sat down and drafted a timeline of simple milestones to reach during the coming semester.  The deadline was the demonstration day in week 6 (ANU Open Day), by which time I hope to have a fully working speech detection setup that passes on its findings to the NLP model.  It looks like I might have a slim chance of finally working on the control module as well, if we get that far.

The holidays marked the dates for Robocup International 2015, and whilst I wasn't over in China I did get a peek at the data given out to participants, including questions and responses, and names the robot needs to know.  I'll compile a text document with these to upload to the CMUSphinx language model creator when it's back up and running.