---
layout: post
categories: robocup-at-home comp3550
title: "18 -- The Last Term Begins" 
resource: true
---

Over the break I did quite a bit of research into different control systems we could implement on a ROS framework.  It appears that ROS itself isn't very friendly towards timing operations which could be an issue later on down the track.  There are a few loose ends to work out, especially on how to implement adaptive control to control the robot actuators.  I'm hoping that we'll have some time to work that out, or even perhaps postpone it for next year.

My motivation for the project has improved a bit since I've tidied up speech recognition and moved to implementing a saner control system than the current one, but I'm worried we won't manage to get everything achieved before the showcase.  Abbie and I will be working on implementing the system properly on a ROS architecture (with help from the others) and moving it more towards what the architecture Abbie drew up looks like.  It may be beneficial to eventually move to a proper real-time framework eventually, which would allow for more organic development and integration than trying to shoehorn our time-sensitive operations into a way that still works with everything else.  


I keep wondering what the PMs have as the goal we want to achieve (rather than just "have it run on ROS").  I feel we're floundering around a bit with no clear short term goal in sight to aim towards, and that worries me since I can see that there's quite a bit of work to do before this project is ready to showcase and pass on.  For the rest of this week I'll focus on tweaking a few speech-related parts and moving onto designing the ROS-based system.


 

