---
layout: post
categories: robocup-at-home comp3550
title: "12 -- Tutor meeting with Shayne" 
resource: true
---

We had a team meeting on Monday morning to catch up before the Tuesday review, and help focus what we wanted to showcase.  Unfortunately I wasn't able to attend all of it, but when I left we had a good showcase laid out and had worked out how to explain our plan for the term.  My work constituted getting a more up-to-date python program working, however I ran into a problem with python sound libraries not liking the hardware I had on hand, and did not work on the computer I brought to demonstrate on.  The program ran in an endless loop, recording an audio file for 10 seconds and then running it through CMUSphinx to decode any audio that was spoken.

On Tuesday Shayne met with us and gave us feedback on our progress.  I was somewhat surprised that it didn't go as well as I hoped, since we'd all put in a lot of effort to modernise and update our particular parts of the system and made them modular to help integrate in the following weeks.  Shayne wanted to see much better integration which I can understand, however we had modernised every part so that it was more state of the art and actually worked accurately rather than a "best guess" -- especially in face detection and speech recognition.

The big point I got out of the meeting is that our engineering framework needed a lot of improvement, since our codebase was a little scattered and documentation was patchy.  I hope to remedy that over the next few weeks and hopefully improve our use of resources.