---
layout: post
categories: robocup-at-home comp3550
title: "4 -- Meeting With the Dean" 
resource: true
---

Well, we didn't exactly design anything this week -- there's a lot more admin and paperwork to do than I thought, especially after we met with the Deane of CECS this week.

# Meeting with the deane

The PMs, Abbie, Briana (a volunteer) and myself met with the Deane of CECS this week to discuss sponsorship and making this a more cross-disciplinary project across CS and engineering.  She was glad we were clear-headed that ANU's main outcomes of doing so, and suggested some ideas to pursue to make sure that this project is still alive in 5-15 years.

The deane suggests that we come up with a proper business plan with milestones for the next 2 years, and gain the general support from schools and industry before the ANU considers giving us a small seed fund with which to begin developing the robot hardware.

I think that the ANU wants what I consider a "safe" bet -- which is fine -- but generates a catch-22 of needing to be successful to raise funding, but needing funding to be successful... I guess I'll see how this plays out -- most of this stuff is not my domain.

In our meeting we discussed what each person will work on this week -- I self-nominated for designing a capability map and dependency graph so that we have at least something to work on design-wise.  I'm worried that it's already halfway through term and we haven't got a design or any kind of programming happening...

Still lots of paperwork to do.  Abbie and Briana are looking into industry contacts for our project, and Cameron and Sebastian are researching into NLP/mapping and computer vision respectively.  I think I'll focus on NLP as well for now (so I'm doing something), but I do want to continue with my research idea on combining Attribute-based control with its constraints contracts and Expert Systems.