---
layout: post
categories: robocup-at-home comp3550
title: "18 -- The Last Term Begins" 
resource: true
---

Over the break I did quite a bit of research into different control systems we could implement on a ROS framework.  It appears that ROS itself isn't very friendly towards timing operations which could be an issue later on down the track.  There are a few loose ends to work out, especially on how to implement adaptive control to control the robot actuators.  I'm hoping that we'll have some time to work that out, or even perhaps postpone it for next year.

My motivation for the project has improved a bit since I've tidied up speech recognition and moved to implementing a saner control system than the current one, but I'm worried we won't manage to get everything achieved before the showcase.  Abbie and I will be working on implementing the system properly on a ROS architecture (with help from the others) and moving it more towards what the architecture Abbie drew up looks like.  It may be beneficial to eventually move to a proper real-time framework eventually, which would allow for more organic development and integration than trying to shoehorn our time-sensitive operations into a way that still works with everything else.  


I keep wondering what the PMs have as the goal we want to achieve (rather than just "have it run on ROS").  I feel we're floundering around a bit with no clear short term goal in sight to aim towards, and that worries me since I can see that there's quite a bit of work to do before this project is ready to showcase and pass on.  For the rest of this week I'll focus on tweaking a few speech-related parts and moving onto designing the ROS-based system.


 

I keep coming back to this project and reflecting on what went wrong, especially since I have now taken up the job as CSSA President. I think the first mistake was asking people to do something they aren't interested in. And I think this is a very difficult thing to work around, but given that we are a student project, we should have had more of a say that the 4th years choosing what they wanted us to do. And I actually think this is one of the most important things to take away. In the case of the CSSA, it is super important to make sure everyone is doing what they want to do, because it is done on your own time. But in the case of the new committee, it is important to have someone who is looking after industry and sponsorship. The trouble was that no one who was voted in wanted this position, and that really left me in a pickle. It was a case of do I ask someone to spend a year doing a job they don't want, or do I suggest appointing an additional person to the committee for that particular role. This did take a lot of reflection on this year for me to work out the second option was the better option. I guess this lesson was one from experience. I think as a leader, it is provide the individual a say on what they want to work on, rather than tell them. To be honest, I know that I am about to go on as much of a learning journey in the next 12 months being president as the 4th years in this team have this year. It is really a case of everyone makes mistakes and you learn from them.